.TH GOS 1 "" "gos" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gos \- install and switch Go versions in seconds
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gos
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
gos (Go Switch) is a single Bash script that installs and switches Go
versions. It downloads the official binary from go.dev, verifies its
SHA256 checksum, installs it transactionally, and can roll back. It needs
nothing but \fBcurl\fR (or \fBwget\fR) and \fBbash\fR.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B gos latest
\&Install the latest stable Go version
.TP
.B gos install <version>
\&Install a specific Go version
.TP
.B gos run [version] [\-\-] <command> [args...]
\&Run a command with a side-by-side Go version without activating it globally; a bare \-\- uses the project version
.TP
.B gos each <v1,v2,...> [\-\-] <command> [args...]
\&Run a command against several side-by-side Go versions and report a pass/fail summary
.TP
.B gos use [\-\-print] [path]
\&Install the Go version requested by .go-version, .tool-versions, or go.mod; \-\-print only resolves it
.TP
.B gos pin [version]
\&Write .go-version in the current directory (active version by default)
.TP
.B gos check
\&Check whether newer stable Go or gos releases are available (no install)
.TP
.B gos rollback [\-\-dry-run]
\&Restore the previous Go installation, if available; \-\-dry-run only previews the swap
.TP
.B gos uninstall <version or \-\-inactive> [\-\-dry-run]
\&Remove an installed version (side-by-side mode); \-\-inactive removes all but the active and rollback
.TP
.B gos prune [\-\-rollback] [\-\-dry-run]
\&Remove cached Go archives; \-\-rollback also removes the rollback copy, \-\-dry-run only previews
.TP
.B gos current
\&Show the currently active Go version
.TP
.B gos list [\-\-installed] [\-\-minor]
\&List available Go versions (or locally installed ones); \-\-minor keeps the newest per minor
.TP
.B gos platforms [version]
\&List supported OS/arch archives for a Go version
.TP
.B gos status
\&Show an offline dashboard for gos and the active Go
.TP
.B gos which [version]
\&Show the active or side-by-side Go binary path
.TP
.B gos env [\-\-fish] [\-\-auto]
\&Print the PATH setup line or an opt-in per-shell auto-switch hook
.TP
.B gos completions <shell> [\-\-install]
\&Print a Bash, Zsh, or Fish completion script (or install it with \-\-install)
.TP
.B gos doctor [\-\-fix]
\&Diagnose gos, Go, PATH, and local tool dependencies; \-\-fix creates safe missing directories and prints the shell setup line
.TP
.B gos self-update
\&Update gos itself to the latest verified release
.TP
.B gos version
\&Show gos version
.TP
.B gos help [command]
\&Show this help message, or usage for one command
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GOS_INSTALL_DIR
\&Where Go is installed (default /usr/local/go). Override to install without sudo.
.TP
.B GOS_VERSIONS_DIR
\&Opt-in side-by-side layout: each version installs under its own directory and the install dir becomes a symlink to the active one.
.TP
.B GOS_CACHE_DIR
\&Where verified archives and the discovery feed cache are stored.
.TP
.B GOS_DOWNLOAD_MIRROR
\&HTTPS base URL to download archives from; checksums are still verified against go.dev.
.TP
.B GOS_REQUIRE_CHECKSUM
\&Set to 1 to fail closed when a checksum cannot be verified, or feed to additionally require the digest to come from the go.dev feed.
.TP
.B GOS_FEED_TTL
\&Seconds to reuse the on-disk discovery feed cache (default 600; 0 disables it).
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
\&When set, disables colored and symbol output (also GOS_NO_COLOR=1).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR go (1)
.SH HOMEPAGE
https://github.com/johnny4young/gos
